### Cargo Tools:
- `cargo check`:
	- checks the code and all its dependencies for errors.
	- Does not create compiled artifacts
	- fast and rapid feedback

- `cargo about`:
	- lists the crate that we use, collects their licenses and checks for acceptance
	- `about.toml`: configuration that defines the licenses that are accepted and lists the licenses for crates that cargo cant find licenses for
	- exits with a non-zero return code if the licenses check fails

- `cargo-udeps`:
	- used to detect and clean the `Cargo.toml` of the dependencies that are not getting used.
	- Fails to detect un-used dependencies that are transitively relevant.

- `clippy`:
	- works similar to `check`m but provides more information, eg: warnings for common mistakes

- `fmt`:
	- allows automatically and consistently format all the files in the crate.

- `cargo build`:
	- used to build binary or library. If we want to use this for production then we use `--release` flag to ask compiler to optimize the build.

- `cross`:
	- allows to create software for multiple target platforms.
	- makes use of Docker to pull in appropriate build environments.

- `publish`:


### Gitlab CI-CD:
- https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/yaml/

### Test-First-Coding:
- **Legacy Code**: Code that is not covered by tests to check for correct behaviour - hence its not dependable as the maintainability is lacking
- **Ancient Code**: Code created by one or more people that have left the organisation that maintains the code.

To strive for dependable systems it is important to avoid both legacy and ancient code. 

>The ideal point of implementing logic is, when you have an explicit function signature and a set of acceptance test cases.


#### Cynefin Framework:
```
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |        - Complex -        |      - Complicated -      |
  |                           |                           |
  |   Enabling constraints    |   Governing constraints   |
  |      Loosely coupled      |      Tightly coupled      |
  |    Probe-Sense-Respond    |   Sense-Analyse-Respond   |
  |     Emergent Practice     |       Good Practice       |
  |                    +------+-------+                   |
  +--------------------| - Disorder - |-------------------+
  |        - Chaotic - +------+-------+ - Clear -         |
  |                           |                           |
  |    Lacking constraints    |    Tightly constrained    |
  |         Decoupled         |   No degrees of freedom   |
  |     Act-Sense-Respond     | Sense-Categorise-Respond  |
  |       Novel Practice      |       Best Practice       |
  |                           |                           |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
```

Depending on the habitat in which your problem lies we can change our behaviour when coding:
- **Clear**:
	- Start coding immediately based on the tests
- **Complicated**:
	- try decomposing the problem into simple problems that must lie in the clear habitat
	- Then composing this pieces leads to the solution to a complicated problem
- **Complex**:
	- use trial-and-error to learn more about the problem
	- Do not touch the production code, rather experiment in the testing code
- **Chaos**:
	- Dont work in your normal codebase rather create prototypes to come up with acceptance tests.
- **Disorder**:
	- try segmenting your problem into domains where you know what the habitats are and then continue


### Variation Dimensions:
When writing incremental tests, we look at the problem from two types of dimensions:
1. **Qualitative**: Handling different problem aspects
2. **Quantitative**: Handling different problem sizes


## Testing in Rust:
### `cargo test` or `cargo tarpaulin`:
- with `cargo test`, all your tests are executed in parallel. 

### Unit and Integration Testing:
- Unit tests are used to check a ==single unit of functionality==
- Integration test check the ==interaction of functional units in an end-to-end fashion==
- Consider using **==pretty-assertions==** as a drop-in replacement to make test failures and causes better visibility.



## Writing Automated Tests:
